PLANS


It was the third week in September when the Fairfields left the seashore
and returned to their Vernondale home.

“Now, my child,” said Mr. Fairfield, as they sat on the veranda after
dinner, “I will unfold to you my plans for the coming winter, and you
may accept, or reject, or amend them as you please.”

“Proceed,” said Patty, settling herself comfortably in her wicker chair;
“I feel in an amiable mood this evening, and will probably agree to
anything you may suggest.”

“I’ve been thinking for some time,” went on her father, “that I don’t
want to spend the coming winter in Vernondale. I would much rather be in
New York.”

“Reason number one—Nan,” said Patty, checking it off on her forefinger
and smiling at her father.

“Yes,” he responded, with an answering smile, “she is reason number one,
but there are others.”

To readers who are unfamiliar with Patty’s earlier history we may say
right here that her mother had died when Patty was but three years old.
At present she lived with her father in their little home in Vernondale,
an establishment of which Patty greatly prided herself on her
management.

Recently Mr. Fairfield had become engaged to Miss Nan Allen, a young
lady who lived in Philadelphia, and who was a dear friend of Patty’s.

“You know,” Mr. Fairfield went on, “this Vernondale house was only an
experiment, and although it has proved successful in its own way, I want
to try another experiment of a winter in the city. As you so wisely
discern, it is partly for the sake of being nearer to Nan. The Allens
will spend part of the winter in New York, and, too, Philadelphia is
more easily accessible from there than from here. We shall not be
married until spring, and so your absolute monarchy will extend through
the winter, and you can then abdicate in favor of the new queen.”

“And I’ll be glad enough to do it,” cried Patty; “it isn’t abdication at
all; or if it is, I’m glad of it. I’m perfectly delighted that you’re
going to marry Nan, and though it does seem ridiculous to have one of my
own friends for a stepmother, yet she’s six years older than I am, and
if she wants to rule me with a rod of iron, she may.”

“I fancy there won’t be much stepmothering about it; I’m afraid you’ll
be two refractory children, and I’ll have to take care of you both.”

“I don’t know about that,” said Patty, laughing. “You’ve become so
absurdly young yourself of late that I think I shall have to take care
of you two. But tell me some more about your New York plans. Shall we
have a house of our own?”

“No; I think not—this winter. Although you are all that is admirable by
way of a housekeeper, I’ve come to the conclusion that it’s too much
responsibility for you; and of course, would be much more so in the
city. So I think we’ll take a suite of rooms in some nice apartment
hotel. This, you see, will make it more convenient for me in regard to
my business; for I’m quite ready to confess that I’m tired of enjoying a
commuter’s privileges. From our city home I could probably reach my
office in less than half an hour, while from here it takes me fully an
hour and a half, besides the discomforts of the railroad and ferry
trip.”

“That would be nice,” said Patty thoughtfully; “then we wouldn’t have to
have breakfast so early, and I wouldn’t have to wait for you so long at
night.”

“Another thing,” went on her father, “is your own education. I want you
to have a year or two at some good school in the city, and I do not want
you to go back and forth every day from here. And you ought to take
singing lessons, and there are lots of things you ought to learn. During
your rather migratory life of the past two years your education has
really been neglected, and it won’t do. You’re growing up, to be sure,
but you’re still a schoolgirl, and must remain one for a couple of years
more at least. When we take Nan into the family she can look after the
housekeeping, and so you will be free to attend to your studies; but
this winter, as I say, you must not have household cares to interfere.
And so a few rooms in some nice hotel will make a home for us that shall
be cosey and pleasant, and yet not fill your life with the cares and
duties of housekeeping.”

“All right, papa,” said Patty, “I think it will be lovely, and I’m ready
to go, right straight off. Of course I’m sorry to leave the Vernondale
girls, and they’ll be as mad as hops at me for going; but I do love the
city, and I think we’ll have a beautiful time. When shall we start?”

“Not to-night,” said Mr. Fairfield, smiling at his impetuous daughter;
“there are some trifling details to be settled first. You see, you’re a
country girl, my child, and deplorably ignorant of city ways. Has it
occurred to you that it would hardly do for you and me to live alone in
a city hotel? For I must necessarily be down at my office all day, and,
too, I shall probably make occasional trips to Philadelphia. At such
times you would be alone in our apartment, which is, of course, out of
the question. Have you anything to suggest?”

“I never thought of that. I thought we could live together there just
the same as we do here. You’re always away all day.”

“Yes, but here there are the three servants to look after you. And, too,
conventions are not quite the same in New York and Vernondale. I don’t
want a governess for you, for I want you to have the experiences of
school life.”

“I might have a maid,” said Patty, anxious to suggest something. “I
might take Pansy.”

“No,” said her father, “that isn’t the kind of person you require. The
third person in our home must be a lady who can look after you and
advise you, and occasionally go about with you.”

“Well then, marry Nan right away, and let her do all this.”

“That would do admirably, but there is one obstacle. I laid that plan
before Nan herself, and she positively refused to come and be one of us
before next spring.”

“Well, what _can_ we do?” asked Patty.

“Why, I think this the solution of the problem: Let us take Grandma
Elliott to spend the winter with us.”

“Just the thing!” exclaimed Patty, clapping her hands; “she’s the very
one! she loves to live in the city and she’s lived there so much she
knows all about it, and I’m sure she’d be glad to go.”

“Yes, she would be just the right one; she’s a very wise lady, and
although she’s perhaps sixty years old, she is as active and energetic
as many much younger women. She is quite conversant with the
proprieties, and would know even better than I just what you can and
can’t do. For you must know, Patty girl, that your life in New York will
be more restricted in many ways than it is here. There are certain rules
that must be observed, and while I want you to have a good time and a
happy time, yet you must realise that you are still only a schoolgirl,
and must conduct yourself as such.”

“Can’t I go to anything except school, papa?” asked Patty, looking a
little dismayed.

“Well, perhaps on nice afternoons I might take you for a walk around the
block,” said her father, laughing at her anxious face. “But suppose we
go over and see what Grandma Elliott has to say about it.”

“All right,” said Patty, “but you must protect me from Marian’s
ferocity. She’ll be as mad as a raging lion.”

When the question of the Fairfields’ permanent residence was under
discussion a year earlier, Grandma Elliott was perhaps the only one in
favour of their living in New York. The younger Mrs. Elliott, who was
Mr. Fairfield’s sister, had most decidedly been of the opinion that a
home in the small town of Vernondale was in every way better adapted to
Patty’s welfare.

Patty’s cousins had vociferously agreed to this, and the result was that
Mr. Fairfield had taken a house in Vernondale for a year. Patty had
proved a most satisfactory little housekeeper, for she had a real talent
for household management, but even Aunt Alice had at last come to agree
with Mr. Fairfield that the responsibilities were rather heavy for a
schoolgirl.

As Patty had anticipated, the Elliott children, and especially Marian,
received the news with expressions of emphatic disapproval.

“I _knew_ you’d do it!” wailed Marian, “but I think it’s perfectly
horrid, and I’ll never forgive you as long as I live! I don’t _want_ you
to go away from Vernondale, and you won’t like it a bit in New York, I
know you won’t. You can’t do anything at all; you can’t go out into the
street without a _chaperon_, and a maid, and two policemen! And whatever
will the Tea Club do without you?”

“I’ll have all the Tea Club come in to a meeting at my house,” said
Patty, anxious to pacify her cousin.

“We won’t come! we’ll none of us ever speak to you again! we’ll cross
your name off the books and forget that you ever existed!”

It was so seldom that the gentle Marian became excited over anything
that Patty felt really sorry, and tried her best to put the matter in
its most attractive light.

“Don’t talk like that, Marian,” she said; “papa has decided that we are
to go, and so there’s no use in discussing that part of it. Now the
thing to do is to find the bright side and look on that.”

This was Patty Fairfield’s philosophy in a nutshell. All her life she
had not only unquestioningly accepted the inevitable, but had
immediately found its bright side and ignored all others. This was
partly the cause and partly the effect of her bright sunshiny
disposition and her uniformly happy and contented frame of mind.

“Just think, Marian,” she went on, “you can come to see me and we can
have lots of fun. We’ll have all the girls come over while you’re there,
and it will be jolly to have a Tea Club meeting in a hotel.”

“Yes, that will be fun,” assented Marian, “but after the meeting we’ll
all have to come home and leave you there. I suppose I’m selfish, but I
don’t care! I don’t _want_ you to go away from Vernondale, Patty
Fairfield, and I think you’re a mean old thing to go!”

It seemed impossible to do anything with Marian in her present mood, so
Patty turned to Aunt Alice for sympathy.

“I feel quite as sorry to have you go as Marian does,” said Mrs.
Elliott, looking lovingly at her niece, “though I don’t express myself
in such violent language. But Brother Fred has been talking to me and he
has convinced me that it is a good plan in many ways. So I am going to
give you up bravely, and I think that after a while Marian will be able
to face the matter more calmly.”

“I don’t think it’s half bad,” broke in Frank Elliott; “of course we
shall miss Patty like the dickens, but I shall spend much of my time
visiting her in New York.”

“Do,” said Patty, delighted at this unlooked-for support; “come just as
often as you like and I’ll guarantee that you’ll have a good time.”

Then Mr. Fairfield proposed his plan of taking Grandma Elliott to spend
the winter with them in the city.

Grandma’s eyes beamed with delight as she listened, for the old lady was
urban in her tastes and had lived far the greater part of her life in
New York.

Aunt Alice and Uncle Charlie heartily approved of this arrangement.

“We shall miss you dreadfully,” said Mr. Elliott to his mother, “but we
shall let you go cheerfully, for I well know how much you will enjoy
it.”

But Marian set up another howl.

“It’s bad enough to have Patty go,” she said, “but to have Grandma go,
too, is terrible. I suppose you’ll take mother and little Gilbert, as
well.”

“Marian, you’re a goose!” said Patty, laughing. “If you don’t stop
talking like that, I’ll take _you_ along and keep you there all winter.”

“I don’t want to do that,” said Marian, “but I don’t want you to go
either. I know one thing, though—after you’ve been there a week you’ll
be so disgusted you’ll come trailing back again.”

“And after you’ve visited me for a week you’ll be so enchanted that you
won’t want to come trailing back,” said Patty, laughing at her cousin’s
woe-begone expression.

“When are you going?” asked Marian in a tone of final resignation.

“Very soon,” said Mr. Fairfield, “for I want to get this ignorant
daughter of mine into school as quickly as possible. Indeed, we shall go
as soon as Grandma Elliott is ready to accompany us.”

“You won’t have to wait long for me,” said Grandma; “I shall be all
ready by the time you have found your house.”




                               CHAPTER II
                             A LAST MEETING


Patty and her father looked at several apartments before they found one
which seemed satisfactory in every way. It was necessary that it should
be near the school Patty was to attend, and also conveniently located
with a view to Mr. Fairfield’s daily trips downtown.

Besides this, Mr. Fairfield was particular about the atmosphere of the
hotel. Some they looked into seemed to Patty like gorgeous glittering
palaces, with decorations so rich and ornate as to be almost barbaric.
These Mr. Fairfield came out of as rapidly as he went in, and more than
once Patty cast a longing backward glance at the marble floors and
gilded frescoes which her father seemed to scorn. On the other hand, Mr.
Fairfield was equally ill-pleased with a house which was unattractive in
appearance, or whose furnishings were not tasteful.

Patty almost began to think that her father was too fastidious, and
would never be able to find a place that would exactly suit him.

However, the moment they stepped inside of a certain apartment hotel
named The Wilberforce, Mr. Fairfield’s face showed an expression of
satisfaction, which immediately convinced Patty that they had struck the
right trail at last.

And so it proved, for after looking into several suites of rooms then
vacant, Mr. Fairfield told Patty that if she could feel contented to
take up her abode there, he thought he could.

Patty willingly agreed, for she, too, liked The Wilberforce from the
first.

The hotel faced Central Park, and though not among the largest in the
city, it was more attractively planned than any of the others they had
looked at.

The apartment they liked best was a corner one with windows looking
toward the east and south. The large corner room had a beautiful bay
window, and was so light and sunny that Patty declared it should be
their library.

“Library, sitting-room and general living-room,” said her father,
laughing; “you know, Puss, you can’t have as many rooms at your disposal
in the city as you have in Vernondale. But we’ll have all our books and
favourite belongings in this room, and I’m sure we can make it very
comfortable. Then this smaller room next will be a more formal reception
room for casual callers.”

There were four bedrooms, and Mr. Fairfield insisted that the two
sunniest and pleasantest ones should be assigned to Patty and Grandma
Elliott. The other two, whose windows opened on an airshaft instead of
on the street, were to be Mr. Fairfield’s bedroom and a guest-room.

The whole apartment was very prettily furnished in good taste, and
entirely without that lavish use of bright colours which so often
characterises a hotel.

The library was in green and the little reception-room in pale blue.

Patty’s own room was daintily done up in pink, and though perhaps not
just the colour she would have chosen, it was so fresh and pretty that
she expressed herself perfectly satisfied.

Of course, everything in the way of chairs and tables was amply
provided, but the Fairfields proposed to bring in a quantity of their
own furniture, rugs, pictures and books.

Having decided on the apartment, Mr. Fairfield drew a plan of it so that
when they returned home they might better decide what pieces of
furniture could be accommodated.

Patty flew around from room to room in great delight.

“I’m so used to changing my home,” she said, “that I really feel quite
at home in this apartment already. This library is going to be the
loveliest room in the world. You can have your desk there, and I can
have my little desk here, and we’ll have our big library table in the
middle, just as it is at home. Then we’ll have Grandma’s little
work-table by this window. This big fireplace is perfectly fascinating
and we can bring our brass andirons and fireset. They’re a lot prettier
than these old black iron things. And we can bring a book-case or two,
can’t we, papa?”

“You can bring whatever you like, Chicken; but I wouldn’t advise carting
in many of those heavy things at first, until we’re sure we like the
place well enough to stay all winter. It certainly looks attractive, and
it has been highly recommended to me, but after all it may prove to have
serious disadvantages. So at first we’ll just bring our desks, and some
books and pictures, and a few little trinkets to prettify the rooms, and
then later on, if we like it, we can run back to Vernondale for a few
more things.”

“Yes, that is best, papa,” said Patty; “you always do know what is best.
And now how soon do you suppose we can come in to stay?”

“I think we’ll move next Saturday. I can take a whole holiday that day,
and get you and Grandma safely established here.”

So eager was Patty to select and pack up the things she wanted to take
to the city that she could scarcely wait to get back to Vernondale. It
had been a tiresome day, but as soon as she reached home she quite
forgot her fatigue in the fun of making her selections. Her favourite
pictures were taken from the walls and stood in the hall ready to be
packed. All of her tea-things, a small selection of bric-a-bric, and a
large box of books were added. Then Patty packed her own trunk and her
father’s. Mr. Fairfield looked after the heavier matters, such as rugs
and chairs and the two desks and Grandma’s little work-table.

Altogether, it seemed like a regular moving, and Marian, who came over
in the midst of the excitement, sat down on the box of books and burst
into tears.

“Marian,” said Patty, almost crying herself, “if you don’t stop acting
like that I don’t know what I shall do. I’m rapidly growing homesicker
and homesicker, and now if you commence to weep all over the place I
shall just go to pieces entirely.”

“But you _want_ to go away,” wailed Marian, between her sobs, “you just
_want_ to go, and that’s the worst of it! If you _did_ cry you’d be
nothing but an old hypocrite!”

“I do want to go, but I’m sorry to leave Vernondale, too. Don’t you
suppose I’m fond of all you girls? Don’t you suppose I’ll miss you like
sixty? And don’t you suppose it’s a heap worse for me to go away from
you all than it is for you to have me go? Why, there’s lots of you to
cheer each other up, and there’s only one of me. But what’s the use of
acting like this, anyway? I’ve got to go, and I might as well go
laughing as crying. If _your_ father wanted you to go, you’d go, and _I_
wouldn’t do all I could to make it harder for you by crying from morning
to night.”

The logic of these remarks seemed to impress Marian, for she stopped
crying, and said: “I suppose I am a horrid old thing to act so, and I am
going to stop, at least until after you’re gone, and then I’m going to
cry all I want to.”

“Do,” said Patty, “have a real good time and cry all day, and every day,
if you like. But now come on and help me pack my photographs.”

Marian was as good as her word. She cried no more, and though her
demeanour was not exactly hilarious, she ceased wearing a reproachful
air, and went around helping Patty with a loving good-will.

The last few days before their departure Patty and Mr. Fairfield spent
at the Elliotts’ home.

The trunks and boxes had all been sent away, and Boxley Hall was shut up
and securely barred and fastened.

The servants had found other situations. Mancy was going to live at Miss
Daggett’s, though the good-natured coloured woman was not all sure of
her ability to stay with that sharp-tongued lady.

Pansy was to live with the Elliotts, and Mr. Fairfield had promised her
that if under his sister’s tuition she became a competent waitress she
should come the next year to live in the city house of the new Mrs.
Fairfield. Pansy was delighted at this prospect, for she had become
devotedly attached to the Fairfields, and, moreover, was a great admirer
of the lovely Miss Allen.

The day before Patty was to leave Vernondale the Tea Club had a farewell
meeting at Marian’s.

“You know, Patty,” said Elsie Morris, “that you’ll still have to be
president of the Club. We utterly refuse to let anyone else have that
position.”

“But that’s perfectly silly,” protested Patty; “it would be much more
sensible for me to be an honourable or honorary ex-president, and you
put in somebody else to rule the Club this winter.”

“Pooh,” said Ethel Holmes, “don’t flatter yourself you ruled this Club!”

“No,” said Patty, laughing, “or if I did rule them, they overruled me.
You’re a fractious lot, and it’s far from being an easy task to be your
president. However, as I want you to have somebody to keep you straight
during my absence, I’m going to propose my cousin Marian for the office
of president.”

This proposal was most favourably received, and Marian was unanimously
elected president of the Tea Club, until such time as Patty should
return to Vernondale. For the girls, one and all, refused to admit that
Patty was going away permanently. They chose to assume that she was
merely going to New York for the winter, and implicitly believed that
the summer months would see her again established at Boxley Hall.

“And very likely we _shall_ return,” said Patty. “Nobody can foretell
what my father is going to do, and nobody can stop him when he once
decides what he is going to do. I certainly never dreamed he was going
to marry Nan, until he told me so himself.”

“Aren’t you glad about it?” asked Helen Preston.

“Yes, indeed,” exclaimed Patty; “I’m as happy as can be about it. I just
love Nan, and it will be just like having a sister. I wish they’d get
married right away, only then I suppose we wouldn’t have Grandma Elliott
with us this winter, and I’d be sorry about that. Now remember, girls,
just as soon as we get settled at The Wilberforce you’re all to come in
some Saturday. Papa says not to come for tea, because it makes you so
late getting home, but to come for luncheon, and he’ll take us all to
the matinée afterward.”

There was a general chorus of glee at this, for the girls were well
acquainted with the kind and genial Mr. Fairfield, and his invitation
meant a delightful treat.

“I do think your father is lovely,” said Polly Stevens, “and I think
you’re going to have beautiful times in the city this winter. I really
quite envy you.”

“But I wish you weren’t going,” said Christine Converse; “I don’t see
how the Tea Club can get along at all without you.”

“But I shall often come out to the Tea Club meetings,” said Patty; “of
course I shall often come out to Marian’s to stay a day or two, and if
I’m here on Saturday I can come to the Club, and whenever you have an
evening entertainment I’ll come out for that.”

“I hadn’t thought of that,” said Marian, brightening a little; “and you
can come out to our house for Thanksgiving and Christmas, and New Year’s
Day, and all the holidays, can’t you?”

“Yes,” said Patty, smiling; “except the ones you come in to spend with
me.”

As this brighter outlook had greatly decreased Marian’s aspect of
hopeless gloom, the girls all began to wax more merry, and soon they
were all joking and laughing in true Tea Club style.

Each one had brought a parting gift for Patty and the presentations were
made with jesting speeches.

Elsie Morris brought a well-filled court-plaster case, for, as she
explained, Patty was sure to be knocked down and run over every day by
automobiles and trolley cars, and the healing strips would prove
beneficial.

Laura Russell brought her a tiny fern growing in a flower pot, in order
that she might have some green thing to remind her of the country.

“Oho,” said Ethel Holmes, “I’m going to give you a dozen green things to
remind you of the country,” and Ethel produced her gift, which was
nothing more nor less than a humorous sketch of the twelve girls of the
Tea Club. Ethel was clever at drawing, and the group was well
caricatured. Instead of drawing the faces, she had pasted in tiny
photographs of the girls’ features, and, moreover, had realistically
bedecked their hats with tiny feathers and microscopic bows of real
ribbon. Neckties and hair-ribbons were also pasted into place, until the
whole affair was a most comical representation of the Club members.

Patty was delighted and declared she would have this work of art framed
and conspicuously hung in her new home.




                              CHAPTER III
                               A NEW HOME


On Saturday morning the Fairfields and Grandma Elliott started for their
New York home. Uncle Charlie went to town on the same train, and the
rest of the Elliott family escorted the party to the station.

Marian had determined not to cry when Patty went away, but it required
such a desperate effort to carry out her resolution that she made a most
pathetic picture.

“Chirk up, sis,” said Frank; “the world isn’t coming to an end. I’ll be
a Patty to you.”

“And a Grandmother, too?” asked Marian, smiling in spite of herself.

“Yes, and an Uncle Fred. I’ll be a whole family tree to you if you’ll
only smile a little, and brace up. You look like a dying rubber plant.”

Marian did brighten up a little, and as the train rolled out of the
station the last Patty saw of her cousin was a positive, if not very
merry, smile of farewell.

Following the process of thought usual to those starting off on a
journey, Patty spent the first half of the trip to New York thinking
about those she had left behind; thinking of her pleasant Vernondale
home, her dear relatives, and the merry crowd of Tea Club girls. At
first it seemed to her that no new scenes or new friends could ever make
up for those she was leaving. But as she neared Jersey City and as she
crossed the long ferry her thoughts turned forward to her new home in
New York, and her anticipations began to seem bright and happy.

Uncle Charlie parted from them at the ferry, and soon Patty and her
large family, as she called it since the addition of Grandma Elliott,
were in a cab driving uptown to The Wilberforce.

Grandma Elliott was perhaps the most enthusiastic member of the party.
That good lady was very fond of New York city, and had the effect of a
patriot returning home after an enforced absence.

When at last she was ushered into the pretty apartment at The
Wilberforce, she was more delighted than ever.

“My dear Fred,” she exclaimed, “what beautiful rooms! So bright and
sunny, and such a delightful outlook across the park. I’m sure we shall
be very happy here.”

The rooms did look very attractive. The furniture sent from Vernondale
had been unpacked and put in place, and now it only remained for Patty
to arrange the smaller trifles that were to make the place distinctively
home-like.

To Patty’s surprise they found awaiting them a large box of
chrysanthemums addressed to Grandma, and a smaller box of carnations for
Patty. These had been sent as a greeting of welcome from Mr. Hepworth.

“How kind it was of him to send them,” said Patty, as she arranged the
flowers in tall glass vases; “we’ll keep these beautiful chrysanthemums
in the library and put the pink carnations in the reception-room. Now,
I’ll put these brass candlesticks on the mantel—and, papa, I wish you’d
wind that fussy French clock of yours, for I don’t dare touch it.”

“Indeed, you’d better not touch it, Miss Harum-scarum; that clock
insists on being treated with the utmost deference and respect. I’m
afraid you’d smash it at the first winding.”

“I dare say I should; I never can make a clock go. Now, Grandma, can’t I
help you with your unpacking?”

The three worked with right good-will, and by noon nearly everything was
in place. This was fortunate, for just as Patty flung herself down in an
easy chair to rest, and to survey the results of her labours, callers
were announced.

These were Aunt Isabel St. Clair and Ethelyn.

“For goodness’ sake!” exclaimed Patty, in dismay, “I don’t want to see
them—at least not just now.”

“You can’t very well help seeing them,” said Grandma, “so you may as
well look pleasant about it. You may show them up,” she added to the
servant who had brought the cards.

In a few moments Aunt Isabel and Ethelyn came bustling in.

“How do you do?” exclaimed Mrs. St. Clair, “how perfectly lovely to have
you here in town. And how delightful, Mrs. Elliott, that you can be here
to take care of our Patricia.”

Patty smiled at the name which no one ever called her except the St.
Clair family, and Aunt Isabel chattered on.

“You’re looking well, Fred, and what lovely rooms you have; I shall
spend a great deal of my time here, I’m sure. I shall always drop in to
luncheon when I’m in town for the day shopping.”

“So shall I,” said Ethelyn, “and I’m coming to stay a week at a time,
mayn’t I, Patty?”

“I’m not sure about that,” said Mr. Fairfield, smiling kindly, “for you
see Patty is going to be very busy this winter. She’s going to school,
and I want her to study hard; and she is to take music lessons, so that
really she will have little time to play.”

“Oh, are you going to school?” said Ethelyn, in a disappointed tone;
“I’m not going any more. Mamma wanted me to, but I said I wouldn’t. I’m
coming out this winter, and I’m going to have smashing good times. Don’t
go to school, Patricia.”

“Patty hasn’t anything to say about it,” said Patty’s father, smiling at
his daughter.

“I want to go, anyway,” said Patty; “I want to learn things, and,
besides, I think sixteen is too young for a girl to come out.”

“Much too young,” said Grandma Elliott, decidedly; “Patty is in my
charge this winter, and she is to be a schoolgirl and not a young lady
in society.”

Aunt Isabel sniffed a little, and looked at Mrs. Elliott through her
_lorgnon_. But the elder lady bore the scrutiny calmly, and only said,
“I hope Patty will be happy in spite of my restrictions.”

“Oh, of course she will; and I dare say you are quite right,” said Mrs.
St. Clair, quickly, for she had no wish to offend Mrs. Elliott. “What
school are you going to, my dear child?”

“I selected her school,” said Mr. Fairfield, “and I decided that the
Oliphant school would be best for her.”

“And a wise choice, too,” said Aunt Isabel; “that’s where I wanted
Ethelyn to go this year. The best people in New York patronise it.”

“But they’re awfully strict there,” said Ethelyn; “they make you study
every minute. The lessons are awful hard, and the rules are something
terrible.”

Patty began to look a little serious at this prospect, but Mr. Fairfield
said: “School management that isn’t strict is no management at all; but
if Patty gives this school a fair trial and finds she doesn’t like it,
we’ll try to find one that suits her better.”

Mr. Fairfield invited the guests to stay to luncheon and they willingly
accepted.

Patty was a little disappointed, for though fond of her aunt and cousin
in some ways, she would have preferred not to have them there the first
day.

The St. Clairs were very assertive people and seemed to pervade the
whole place. They fluttered about from room to room, examining
everything, and freely offering advice and criticism.

“I will help you select some new clothes, Patricia,” said her aunt; “for
I’m sure what you had in Vernondale will not be suitable for the city.”

Grandma Elliott looked dismayed. She was of such a gentle, refined
nature that she could not quite bring herself to refuse Mrs. St. Clair’s
offer, and yet as she glanced at the over-dressed Ethelyn she was very
sure that she did not wish Patty similarly attired.

But Mr. Fairfield came to her rescue. “Thank you, Isabel,” he said; “but
you see I’m still trying experiments with my daughter. And this winter I
have put her entirely in charge of Mrs. Elliott in every
particular—even including her millinery goods. But come, let us all go
down to luncheon, and we shall be greatly indebted to you if you will
assist us in ordering that.”

As Patty sometimes expressed it, her father had a happy faculty for
offending people without their knowing it; and he had changed the
subject so deftly that Mrs. St. Clair scarcely realised that her offer
had been refused.

As they went down in the elevator, and passed through many beautiful
rooms on their way to the dining-room, Ethelyn grew enthusiastic with
delight.

“Oh,” she whispered, as she squeezed Patty’s arm, “it must be just
gorgeous to live here! Such beautiful rooms, and such grand-looking
people, and servants all about. I should think you would always want to
sit in these parlours.”

“I don’t,” said Patty, laughing; “I wouldn’t know what to do sitting up
here in state. I think our own rooms much more pleasant and home-like.”

The dining-room, too, excited Ethelyn’s admiration. The soft thick
carpets, and daintily laid tables, each with its vase of flowers, seemed
suddenly to her far more desirable than the well-appointed dining-room
in her own home at Villa Rosa.

Ethelyn was of an envious disposition, and though she was indulged and
petted by her parents, she always wanted the belongings of someone else.
She determined right then and there to coax her father to close up Villa
Rosa and come to New York for the winter, though she had little hope
that he would do so.

Whatever might be Aunt Isabel’s taste in buying clothes, she certainly
knew very well how to order a luncheon, and as Mr. Fairfield put the
matter entirely in her hands, a most satisfactory repast was the result.

Patty enjoyed it all immensely, and as she looked around at the
pleasant-faced people at the other tables she came to the conclusion
that it was all very attractive, and that her home would be very happy.

She was glad that Aunt Isabel and Ethelyn were only temporary guests,
for Patty could not help noticing that Mrs. St. Clair, though polite and
correct, did not act quite like Grandma Elliott.

The elder lady, though equally sophisticated, had an air of reserve and
gentle dignity which seemed to Patty far more charming than Aunt
Isabel’s haughty self-assurance. Though Patty herself was inexperienced,
she knew by instinct that Aunt Isabel laughed just a little too loudly,
and expressed her opinions just a little too frankly, for a public
dining-room.

But Mrs. St. Clair had been very kind to Patty during her visit the
previous year, and, too, she had, as Patty was well aware, some very
lovable traits. So Patty’s sense of justice asserted itself, and she
reproached herself for having criticised her aunt unkindly, even in
thought.

As the St. Clairs were going to a matinée, they left immediately after
luncheon, and Patty drew a little sigh of relief after their departure.

“I like Aunt Isabel least of any of my aunts, papa,” she said.

“I don’t blame you much, my child; Isabel is kind-hearted, but she is a
worldly woman, and exceedingly superficial. Your Aunt Alice is worth a
dozen of her.”

“Yes,” said Patty, “and Aunt Grace is worth half-a-dozen, and Aunt
Hester is worth three or four, anyway.”

“But she is your aunt, Patty,” said Grandma Elliott, gently; “you must
remember that, and consequently you owe her respect and deference.”

“All right, Grandma; I’ll pay her all the respect and deference she
wants; but I do hate to have her bothering around when we want to get
settled to our housekeeping. But now they’ve gone, and I can have a good
long afternoon to straighten things out.”

“All right, Puss,” said her father, “and I’m going out now, on some
errands, and if you tuck Grandma away for a little nap, which I’m quite
sure she needs, you can have an uninterrupted hour all to yourself.”

“Beautiful!” cried Patty; “then I can fix all my books just as I want
them, and arrange my tea table and bureau-drawers and everything. And
you’ll bring me home a box of candy, won’t you, so we can have a lovely
cosey time this evening?”

“In the bright lexicon of your youth, a cosey time seems to mean a box
of candy and a new book.”

“Yes,” said Patty; “I’m sure I don’t know anything cosier. Now run
along, and come back early, and don’t forget the candy.”

A little fatigued with the unusual exertions of the day, Mrs. Elliott
went to her room for her nap, and Patty prepared to enjoy herself in her
own way. She was tidy by nature, and really enjoyed what she called
straightening out. Deciding upon the best places for her belongings, and
then arranging them in those places, proved an absorbing occupation, and
she spent the whole afternoon thus happily at work.




                               CHAPTER IV
                                LORRAINE


Later in the afternoon Kenneth Harper called.

Patty and Grandma Elliott were both glad to see the boy, for though a
student at Columbia College, he had visited much at Vernondale, and they
were both well acquainted with him.

“It’s awfully jolly, your being in town this winter, Patty,” he said,
“and I expect I’ll bother you to death running down to see you. If I
come too often, Mrs. Elliott, you must just put me out without any
ceremony.”

“I’ll remember that,” said Grandma, smiling, “and if you appear more
than once a week, I shall give you a gentle hint.”

“A hint will be sufficient, ma’am; I’m not like the man who hung around
until they kicked him downstairs. He thought a while and then the
situation dawned upon him; ‘I know what they meant,’ he said; ‘they
meant they didn’t want me up there!’ Now I’m not like that; I can catch
on much more quickly.”

Patty and Grandma laughed heartily at Kenneth’s funny story, and then
the boy unwrapped a parcel which he had brought.

“You see,” he said, “I felt sure you people would want to do a little
light farming, so I brought you a plantation.”

As he spoke he removed the papers from a pretty window-box, which was
filled with several small plants.

“Oh, how nice!” cried Patty, clapping her hands; “I just wanted
something to take care of. You see I can’t have a dog or a cat or any
kind of an animal here, but I can have plants. One of the girls gave me
a little fern, but I think it is going to die. It’s drooping like a
weeping-willow now.”

“I rather think these will die soon,” said Kenneth, cheerfully, “but it
doesn’t matter; when they do, you can get some more to put in—of a
different kind. It’s nice to have a variety.”

“I think they look very thrifty,” said Grandma, “and I’m sure with good
care they’ll do nicely.”

“Perhaps they will, ma’am; that one in the end is an orange tree. It may
have oranges on by Christmas.”

“Yes, if anybody ties them on,” said Patty, laughing.

With Kenneth’s help they arranged the box in the bay-window, and Patty
named it “Ten-Acre Farm.” “For,” she said, “although it doesn’t really
measure quite ten acres, I like a large-sounding name; it gives you such
a feeling of roominess.”

“And that’s a great thing in New York,” said Kenneth; “somehow I always
feel cramped. My room is too small, there’s never any room in the street
cars, and even the sidewalks are crowded.”

“Well, you may come down and roam around my farm whenever you like,”
said Patty; “and now, don’t you think it would be nice, Grandma, if we
made a cup of tea? Just to see how the tea-things work, you know.”

Grandma thought it would be a very nice plan, and she rang for hot
water, while Patty hunted up the tea-caddy, and Kenneth filled the
alcohol lamp.

And so, when Mr. Fairfield returned with the promised box of candy, he
found a merry tea-party of three awaiting him.

“How do you do, Kenneth, my boy!” he said, cordially grasping young
Harper’s hand.

“I’m very well, Mr. Fairfield, and delighted to welcome you and yours as
fellow-citizens of our village. The last time I saw you, we were all
down at the seashore; do you remember?”

“Yes, and a jolly time we had down there; we must go again next summer.
Won’t you stay and dine with us, Kenneth?”

“No, thank you, sir; I can’t to-night, much as I should like to. I must
go home and dig up Greek roots all the evening.”

“You have a farm, too, then?” said Grandma, smiling.

“Yes, and one that’s rather hard to till. But I suppose, Patty, you’ll
be grubbing away at lessons next week.”

“Yes,” said Patty, “and I believe I’m not to lift my eyes from my book
from Monday morning till Friday night.”

“But Saturdays?” said Kenneth.

“Saturday afternoons, if we are at home, we’ll always be glad to see
you,” said Grandma.

“Thank you, ma’am; I’ll often run down, and, take my chances on finding
you in.”